# Cornivores
Django
  Install
    pip  install Django
Virtual Env
	Install
      pip install virtualenv
	Create
      Python -m venv <virtual_environtment_name>
	Activate
      source <virtual_environtment_name>/bin/activate
	Deactivate:-  
      deactivate
	Additional:-
      pip  list   (list of install packages)
      pip freeze > (filename) -> pip freeze >requiements.txt
      (our all dependencies package name are written inside the requirements .txt file)
      pip -r requirements.txt (to install the packages which are mentioned in         requirements file)
	
Start project
    django-admin startproject <file_name> . (current folder take and create a django project)	
    django-admin startproject <filename> (its additionally create a folder with filename and inside of a folder our project files take place)
Run Server
    python manage.py runserver 8080
Select Interpreter(Vs code)
    Ctr+shift+p ->serech python :select interpreter
    Select local env python in env/bin folder
    When we open a new terminal inside of our project folder it will automatically activate the env for our project
Start App
    python manage.py startapp <app_name>
    (in python our main project folder the settings.py file has a list of installed apps every single app has its own functions. So default Django has an admin and auth app )

    Add an app name in settings.py

App
    (when we trigger the api first its going to project urls and check for url matches here we mention our app urls so its go to our app urls in our app urls we route our urls to match the view function )
	  Views
        In app/ views.py file we creat a function which will handle the request and return a response
		Ex
			from django.http import HttpResponse
      def first_review(request):
                return HttpResponse('my first view')
			
      In this view function, its always have an argument called request, it has a HTTP request 
      We import HTTP response to return in HTTP manner

	  Urls
        We create a urls.py in app folder and here we import path,and create a variable called urlpatterns
        In url pattern we mention path 
        In path add a route and view function
			Ex
            from django.urls import path
            from . import views

            urlpatterns=[
                path('home/',views.first_view)
            ]

      We linked the urls .py in app to project urls
      In project urls we include the app urls

      Ex
        from django.contrib import admin
      from django.urls import path,include


      urlpatterns = [
          path('admin/', admin.site.urls),
          path('dino/',include('Dino.urls'))
      ]

Django-User-Model
      In build django has user table with some column values
      We can use it if we want add some more column then we can inherit the 
      AbstractUser,AbstarctBaseUser ,from this we can create more columns
    Columns
        username: A unique identifier for the user. This field is required and must  be unique.

        password: A hash of the user's password. This field is required and is not returned when the user object is serialized.

        email: The user's email address. This field is optional, but it is recommended to have one for email-based authentication.

        first_name: The user's first name.

        last_name: The user's last name.

        is_staff: A boolean indicating whether the user is a member of the site's staff.

        is_active: A boolean indicating whether the user account is currently active.

        date_joined: The date and time when the user account was created.

		
    AbstractUser
        it has all default column value,and we can add some more to it
    AbstarctBaseUser
        It has some column from default column we can add some more over of it 
        Its like we create a user from scratch
        
        Column

            id: a unique integer identifier for the user, automatically generated by Django.

            password: a string field that stores the user's password. This field is automatically encrypted and hashed by Django for security.

            last_login: a datetime field that stores the date and time of the user's last login.

            is_active: a boolean field that indicates whether the user is currently active or not. In Django, inactive users cannot log in or perform any actions that require authentication.

            is_staff: a boolean field that indicates whether the user is a staff member or not. Staff members have additional privileges and access to the Django admin interface.

            is_superuser: a boolean field that indicates whether the user is a superuser or not. Superusers have all privileges and access to all parts of the Django application.
